docs: Sameness groups GA (#19103)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/config-entries/sameness-group.mdx

# Sameness groups configuration entry reference

> This page provides reference information for sameness group configuration entries. Sameness groups associate identical admin partitions to facilitate traffic between identical serices registered to different datacenters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides reference information for sameness group configuration entries. Sameness groups associate identical admin partitions to facilitate traffic between identical services registered to different datacenters.
```

Similar to the sentiment that Michael pointed out, I feel like the concept that sameness groups can be a mixture of local partitions (same dc) and remote partitions (peered dc) is not conveyed clearly everywhere and might be confusing for users if not mentioned up-front in an explicit way.

### `DefaultForFailover`

Determines whether the sameness group should be used to establish connections to services with the same name during failover scenarios.

> When this field is set to `true`, DNS queries and upstream requests automatically failover to services in the sameness group according to the order of the members in the `Members` list. It impacts all services on the partition.

Reviewer: `DefaultForFailover` does not influence DNS and only influences upstream requests.

When this field is set to `false`:
  

>   - You must specify `destination_sameness_group` in order to configure an upstream. Refer to [Upstream configuration reference](/consul/docs/connect/proxies/proxy-config-reference#upstream-configuration-reference) for more information. 

Reviewer: `destination_sameness_group` doesn't exist on a upstream definition from what I can tell. I know it was proposed at some point, but I don't believe it was ever implemented.

  - You can use a sameness group for failover by configuring the `Failover` block of a [service resolver configuration entry](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-resolver).

#### Values

- Default: `false`
- Data type: Boolean

### `IncludeLocal`

> Determines whether the local partition should be considered the first member of the sameness group. When this field is set to `true`, DNS queries, upstream requests, and failover traffic target return a health instance from the local partition unless one does not exist.

Reviewer: Right below this section is the `Members` field -- all the `IncludeLocal` does is simply implicitly add the local partition as the first item in that `Members` listing.

Also worth noting is this description in the `Members` section.

>Specifies a partition in the local datacenter that is a member of the sameness group. When the value of this field is set to `*`, all local partitions become members of the sameness group.

I believe this is wrong. I don't think we support wildcard configuration for sameness groups.

### `spec.defaultForFailover`

> Determines whether the sameness group should be used to establish connections to services with the same name during failover scenarios. When this field is set to `true`, upstream requests automatically failover to services in the sameness group according to the order of the members in the `spec.members` list. It impacts all services on the partition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Determines whether the sameness group should be used to establish connections to services with the same name during failover scenarios. When this field is set to `true`, upstream requests automatically failover to services in the sameness group according to the order of the members in the `spec.members` list. This setting affects all services on the partition.
```
Just to clarify what "it" refers to.

When this field is set to `false`, you can use a sameness group for failover by configuring the `spec.failover` block of a [service resolver CRD](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-resolver).

#### Values

- Default: `false`
- Data type: Boolean

### `spec.includeLocal`

> Determines whether the local partition should be considered the first member of the sameness group. When this field is set to `true`, DNS queries, upstream requests, and failover traffic target return a health instance from the local partition unless one does not exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Determines whether the local partition should be considered the first member of the sameness group. When this field is set to `true`, DNS queries, upstream requests, and failover traffic target return a healthy instance from the local partition unless a healthy instance does not exist.
```
Correct?

### Failover between members of a sameness group

> In the following example, the configuration entry defines a sameness group named `products-api` that applies to the `store-east` partition in the local datacenter. The sameness group is configured so that when a service instance in `store-east` fails, Consul will attempt to establish a failover connection in the following order:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the configuration entry defines a sameness group named `products-api` that applies to the `store-east` partition in the local datacenter. The sameness group is configured so that when a service instance in `store-east` fails, Consul attempts to establish a failover connection in the following order:
```

Kind                     = "sameness-group"  
Name                     = "products-api"
Partition                = "store-east"

> IncludeLocal             = true

Reviewer: Because `store-east` already exists in the member list, this `IncludeLocal = true` will throw a validation error stating that there are duplicate entries in the sameness group. Typically, I would steer users away from the `IncludeLocal = true` and simply have them define the list explicitly to avoid confusion.
